# DL_ASLR
Deep Learning CS 7643 Group Project

## Staged Processed Data
[Link to Data](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/1tkb34i2xyjyl0xkdfmbj/ABjD3H-uKgYVivLEv8dMvjw?rlkey=t13vd2v643wjv8fy0vu0p6xo8&dl=0)


## Running the project 

1. **Clone the Project Repository:**
   - Open a terminal or command prompt.
   - Navigate to the directory where you want to store the project.
   - Clone the repository using Git by running the following command:
     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/Benler123/DL_ASLR.git
     ```
2. **Modify Model and Experiment Names in `train_model.py`:**
   - Open `train_model.py` in a text editor of your choice.

3. **Update Model Name:**
   - Look for the section where the model is defined.
   - Change the model name to one of the available options:
     - NN (Neural Network)
     - CNN (Convolutional Neural Network )
     - LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory )

4. **Specify Experiment Name:**
   - Locate the part of the script where the experiment name is set.
   - Replace the existing experiment name with your desired name.

5. **Run the Training Script:**
   - In the terminal, execute the following command to start training:
     ```bash
     python3 train_model.py
     ```

6. **Monitor Training Progress:**
   - The script will display training accuracy and loss per epoch as it runs.
   - Upon completion, it will print the final test accuracy and loss.
   - A graph depicting the training process will be generated and saved.

7. **Review Results:**
   - After training completes, analyze the results and graphs generated by `train_model.py`.
   - Adjust parameters and rerun as needed based on your experiment objectives.

## How to use PACE 
- Running the models locally can be time consuming due to limited RAM. If you have access to PACE, you can run this project in PACE to get faster results. 
- Open a terminal or command prompt.  
- Log into PACE by running `ssh gburdell3@login-ice.pace.gatech.edu` (substitute your email). This will prompt you to log in using your GT password.
- Use this command `salloc -N1 --mem-per-gpu=12G -t01:00:00 --gres=gpu:V100:1 --ntasks-per-node=4` to allocate yourself access to a GPU. In this case, it will allot a single node, a single V100 with 12gb of memory, 4 cores/threads for 1 hour. You can change the duration, nodes and type of GPU depending on your need, but this is a standard choice. 
- Now that you have the resources, follow the guides below to set up your conda folder(if you haven't set up already), and activate your conda environment. Then you can run the project using the `How to run the project` guide. 

## One Time Conda Set Up in PACE

- By default, conda creates new environments in the home directory at ~/.conda. However, conda environments can be quite large, and the allotted home directory has a relatively small storage quota.
  
1. Log into PACE by running `ssh gburdell3@login-ice.pace.gatech.edu` (substitute your email). This will prompt you to log in using your GT password.
2. First, check to see if you have an existing `~/.conda` directory or symlink by running:
    - `file ~/.conda`
3. If `file ~/.conda` reports "No such file or directory":
    1. Create a `.conda` directory in your scratch folder by running:
        - `mkdir ~/scratch/.conda`
    2. Then, create a symlink from your scratch folder to your home directory:
        - `ln -s ~/scratch/.conda ~/.conda`

4. If `file ~/.conda` reports that `~/.conda` is a directory, then:
    1. Move your `.conda` directory to your scratch space:
        - `mv ~/.conda ~/scratch/`
    2. Create a symlink from your project space to your home directory:
        - `ln -s ~/scratch/.conda ~/.conda`

## How to Use Environment in PACE

1. Follow the one-time setup to create a conda symlink.
2. Log into PACE by running `ssh gburdell3@login-ice.pace.gatech.edu` (substitute your email). This will prompt you to log in using your GT password.
3. Load Anaconda by running:
    - `module load anaconda3/2022.05.0.1`
4. Go to the root of the project and run `conda env create -f environment.yml`.
5. This will create an environment called `DL_ASLR_ENV`. Activate this environment by running:
    - `conda activate DL_ASLR_ENV`
6. Deactivate any environment (if you are in base or any other). Activate your environment by running:
    - `activate DL_ASLR_ENV`
7. You're now ready to run the project!

